in this lesson we're going to look at
the functionality and usage of resource
locks now we have the idea of role-based
access control where i give certain
permissions to resources but sometimes i
want to add in just an additional step
to make sure something doesn't happen
accidentally
so resource lock is something i can
apply at various levels we have that
idea of remember the subscription
of the resource group
and then the resource itself
so i can apply this idea of a resource
lock
at any
of those
levels
and once again it's inherited down so if
i lock the subscription well it's going
to lock the resource groups and the
resources within it as well now this
resource log is of one of two types i
have the idea of
can
not delete
i.e i can modify it
but i can't delete it
or i can assign it as read
only
so once again i can't delete it nor can
i modify it
remember though the idea of azure
is we think about the azure resource
manager
and the azure resource manager is really
the control plane
i am interacting with the objects
resource locks
either one of these
apply at that level it's applying at the
arm level which means it's the control
plane
the data plane that sits underneath this
that varies by the type of resource
is not affected by a resource lock
for example if this was a database
i could still perform crud operations
create
replace update delete operations against
it
if it was blob
i could still delete blobs for example i
could modify them
i'm locking the azure resource
at the control plane but i'm not doing
anything at the data plane so i can
still interact with the data completely
unaffected
so the point of this is
it's an additional step i would have to
perform
if i wanted to modify it i'd have to
take off for example the read-only or
delete it i'd have to take off
if either one of those applied
to be able to modify that
well i have to have that
administrator capability so i have to be
the owner
so to apply a resource lock
i have to be the owner of whatever scope
i am applying or deleting the resource
lock from
the other thing you can do
is if you are the user
access
administrator
you are not going to see that very often
that's a special role
that global admins can of the azure id
can elevate themselves up to
if for some reason some subscription has
been lost access
i can elevate up to get total control of
anything under that azure id tenant so
really it's based around the idea of the
owner they can add and remove resource
locks and i can remove it but it's
something i would have to go and do i
couldn't accidentally now delete a
storage account i'd have to go oh it's
locked i'd have to go and delete the
lock then i could go and delete the
storage account or the resource group or
the subscription or anything else and we
can just see those so if we go over
if i looked at my subscription actually
at the subscription level
i can go through and i can see
down here
all of the resource locks in the
subscription
so right now i can see i do have two
resource locks
both of them are stopping me deleting
one of them is applied to a storage
account one of them is applied to a
resource group
so i've got those in place but i could
add one at the subscription level
and i can pick well which one am i doing
is it read only
i.e
i'm doing that actual read-only setting
or is it hey you can't delete it so it's
the cannot delete so i pick the type of
lock i want
and i would put that in place because
i'm the owner
i can do that and then because i'm the
owner
well i can delete it as well
but it would be that step i would have
to perform and again it gets inherited
down
so in this case hey this one at the
resource group
i would have to actually anything within
the resource group would have it applied
as well so here on the resource group i
can see
yes it has that lock
it does have a resource inside it
if i look at the storage account
if we go and look at locks
you can see it has it
but it's telling me hey look this is a
parent resource lock i can't change it
here
so that kind of shows the idea that it
gets inherited down so what i couldn't
do would be delete this storage account
but i could still go and
delete blobs within it or tables or
anything else i wanted to do
but if i actually try to delete this
i can't the resource is locked you have
to go and delete that resource lock
first
so that is the point of resource locks
it adds that additional step
before i can actually go in and delete
or maybe modify at the control plane
level again it's not impacting the data
plane
the actual data
running within the resource